Brix: Brix measures the amount of dissolved solids in solution. 1g of sucrose in 100mg of water is 1 Brix, so it is roughly the same as percent sugar. You can measure brix with a refractometer, calculate it by nutrition facts, or convert your SG to brix over on ExtraCalc to use custom sugar percentages in this calculator. 
Volume Lines: These two lines only contain liquid ingredients, all lines on this calculator can be added by either volume or weight. The liquid lines, are the only ones that will show up on your recipe pdf as a volumetric measurements.
Total Volume: This total volume is an estimate of only the fermentables in solution, your actual volume WILL be higher if using high fruit loads. 
Estimated FG: Unless you are planning for this mead to stop early, it is best to leave this feild at .996, this estimate will be close enough for most recipes.
Delle Units: Delle units are a measure of microbial stability. The higher the number, the more likely the brew is stable without the need for additional additives or stabilization methods. Delle units are calculated based on the amount of residual sugar and the ABV of the brew. 73 delle units is considered stable by most, but the actual number varies. Alcohol tolerance is NOT considered in delle stability. Read more here. 
Nutrient SG: This field is set automatically to your change in SG rather than your OG. This is editable if you would like to change that.
Offset PPM: Some musts contain some YAN by themselves. This calculator automatically assumes 25ppm per pound of fruit per gallon, but if you would like to change the offset the field is editable. 
Nitrogen Requirements: Determined by your yeast strain. If your yeast is not on the list, and you do not know its nitrogen requirement, enter it as Other: Other Medium N Yeast.
Preferred Schedule: This calculator allows you to enter any combination of Fermaid O, K, and DAP. It is really up to you which nutrients/combinations you decide to use, but certain combos are better for certain situations. Read more about nutrients and schedules here. 
YAN: Yeast Assimiable Nitrogen (YAN) is the amount of nitrogen needed by your yeast to have a healthy fermentation. Your target YAN is determined by your initial gravity and your yeast's nitrogen requirements. 
Number of Additions: Staggered nutrient additions are usefull in preventing tempurature spikes during fermentation that can stress the yeast. Four nutrient additions is probably the most common regimine, but I personally use three additions or a single addition in most cases.
Yeast Amount: The yeast amount in this calculator is based on the gravity reading and total volume. The amount is editable, and I reccomend that you round up to the nearest packet in most cases.
Max g/L: These numbers are calculated based on the nutrient schedule you pick. They are editable if you choose, but that is not reccomended unless you know what you're doing. 
Go-ferm: Type of Go-ferm effects the amount of water needed for rehydration and the effectiveness of the Fermaid O.
1/3 SB: When 1/3 of the sugars in the must have been consumed. This number is often used for the timing of the final nutrient addition. 
Remaining YAN: If your remaining YAN is more than 0, you should consider adjusting the max g/L feild. Keep in mind you should probably keep your amount of DAP under .96g/L for risk of off-flavors. Also the TTB limit on Fermaid K is .5g/L due to the limit on thaiamine. This is not a concern for homebrewers.
Stabilizers: Potassium sorbate (k-sorb) AND postassium metabisulfite (k-meta) are both needed to prevent refermentation. They cannot be reliably used to STOP fermentation in most cases. Amounts of k-meta needed for stabilizing are based on your pH. MeadTools assumes 50ppm if you choose not to take a pH reading. K-sorb amount is based on your ABV. It is not effective above around 16%. More info can be found here. 
Additives: Any ingredient that doesn't provide fermentable sugars is best placed here. You can use one of the suggested ingredients or add your own. 
